Let's go through a few examples now that
show how maxent entropy models behave.
And in particular we see how maxent and
preview models
don't double count features in the same
way that the naive based models did.
So for these examples, we're assuming
this teeny empirical dataset here.
So that there are two features,
each of which can have two values.
So, there's little or big b,
and there's little or big a.
And we've got this distribution
of the six data points.
And so, these are the features that
we're going to put in our models.
So, the first feature is to say that
we have a probability distribution.
And so once we put in that feature,
the maxent entropy model
is to say okay give a quarter
of probability to each outcome.
Now the second constraint we're going to
put in the model is that we're going to
say well, but wait a minute,
there's a lot of big As in this data.
So our second feature is this red feature.
And the expectation of that red feature
in the empirical data is two thirds.
So we add a parameter then to
the model that captures that and so
then the distribution that we get is that
two-thirds of the data has to be in this
column and so each of these cells is
then uniformly one-third, one-third.
Well, supposed what happens is we just
add a second features in the model
which is actually looking at
exactly the same thing and
saying that the expectation of
getting big A must be two-thirds.
Well, we now have two parameter lights,
lambda prime and lambda double prime.
But what we're going to optimize
the model to do is to say what was
some of the expectations in
this column must be two thirds.
And so what is going to happen actually
is that the sum of lambda prime and
lambda double prime is going to be
the same as the value of the old lambda a.
And we get exactly the same
probability distribution right here.
The effect of that in maxent
entropy models is that features
that duplicate the evidence of other
features tend to not get much weight.
So here's the example for
our named entity model.
So what we're doing is
predicting the named
entity that goes on the next token here.
So if tagging along a word or time and
we're doing at Grace Road and we've
said that at is Other, then we're going
to want to give Named NT tag to grace.
And our two candidates in these
examples have personal locations.
So you could reasonably
think that Grace is a good,
the word Grace is a good indicator
of something being a person and
should therefore have a high weight for
person.
And if you look what's actually in the
model, well, it does have a positive vote
right here that Grace being a person but
it's a fairly weak positive vote.
And a lot of the reason why it's
a weak positive vote is actually just
knowing the letter or words starts with
G is actually rather a strong indicator
that something is a person.
And so the current word feature is a
special case of this more general feature
that the beginning of
the word starts with G.
And so most of the weight goes to there,
and there's only a little bit of positive
weight on knowing what
the current word is.
Okay now let's look at a more
interesting example where we have
features that overlap but
aren't exactly the same.
So this time, here's our empirical
data that we want to model and
these three points of empirical data.
So as before, we start off by
constraining the values to probabilities.
And then, as before,
we put in this red feature,
whose expectation is still
two-thirds in the empirical data.
And so that gives us the same
distribution as before,
with the same parameter weight, lambda A.
Okay, but what now if we want to add
an extra constraint to our model
to capture the fact that
there's data over here?
Well, the obvious thing to
do is to note that capital B
also has an expectation of
two-thirds in the observed data.
So let's add in a feature that's true
if a data point has a capital B,
and let's add that to our model
with a weight of lambda B.
You might be hopeful that that would
mean that we modeled the data perfectly.
But actually, we don't.
The maxent entropy
distribution is this one here.
Where we one-ninth chance of little b,
little a.
So we smooth the model
a little which is maybe good.
But we don't get a uniform
distribution over the other points.
We get weights of 2/9 and
these two cells and 4/9 in this cell.
So you're expecting almost
half the probability mass
to go to getting big A, big B.
If you think about in terms of
the parameter weights down here,
it's kind of obvious what's happening.
But for the case of Big A, Big B,
both of our features fire.
And so the weight that goes into
the maxent formulation is the sum
of lambda A and lambda B.
And therefore, it's probability
has to be much higher than
the probabilities they're assigned
to just lambda A and lambda B alone.
Now there's no weight over here, so
you might have thought that that
should still begin probability zero.
But remember that we do have to be
observing the empirical expectations of
the model so the constraints of our model,
the probabilities here should sum to
two-thirds and the probabilities
here should sum to two-thirds.
And then we've added in this
constraint that the probability
of this cell should be double
the probability of this cell.
And if you work through those constraints,
the maximum likelihood solution is
precisely the one that's shown here
with 4/9ths, 2/9ths, 2/9ths, and 1/9th.
So what that shows is that maxent
entropy models don't model for
free what statisticians
call interaction terms.
That if we want to say something special
about how the combination of having big
A and big B behaves, we have to do that by
putting in extra features that model that.
So here we have the same
data as before and
we start off with the same
two features as before.
One way we can fix that distribution
is that we can add in a third feature
which is true if both A and
B are capitalized.
Well, the expectation of that feature
in the observed data is one-third.
And so, that feature then determines that
the probability of this
cell must be one-third.
Well, given our other feature constraints
coming off these other columns here and
here, then what we get is that
the probabilities of one-third in each
cell and we exactly model
the empirical distribution.
Including of course now that we do get
probability zero for the remaining cell.
I mean of course that's not the only
way that this could have been achieved.
We could have instead assigned
a different feature, F4,
which is true in any of
the situations of Big A,
Big B; Big A, Little B; or
Little A, Big B.
So in any of those three situations,
it has the value one and zero otherwise.
And we can make a model
with this feature alone and
it would also give exactly
the right distribution.
So in general the thing to take away from
here is that a lot of the time, we want to
put in features that model interaction
terms or the model sets of data.
I mean in particular
natural language context,
commonly what you want is to have
features that model natural classes.
So something like a feature for
the characters as a digit, or
the character is upper case.
Or, the characters,
the letter e, regardless of
whether lowercase or uppercase.
That those kind of natural
classes make good features,
because they'll cause the model
to generalize in good ways.
How, though, do we find out which
features we want to put in our model?
So, inside statistics, when you're looking
at logistic regression models, and maxent
entropy models are basically equivalent to
multi-class logistic regression models.
What is standard to do is to
do a greedy stepwise search
over the space of all
possible interaction terms.
I mean, that is, you don't evaluate every
possible subset of features because that
number of possible subsets
of features is exponential.
But you start with a known model and
you one by one add in the feature
that is the most useful out of all
of the features that aren't getting
the model until you find a good model.
That works reasonably well on
traditional statistics cases where you
have maybe 10 or 20 features.
But for the kind of cases that we
do in natural language processing,
we commonly use templates to generate
thousands and thousands of features.
So for instance, if we just have
our what is the current word
feature that's a feature that might have
50,000 values of a typical training set.
But we don't really want that feature,
we want features like what is
the previous word, what is the next word?
And often we want higher
order features like what is
the word pair of the previous word and
the current word.
So very commonly we get models
with millions of features, and
indeed it's those models
with millions of features
that optimize the performance
of our system.
And while if we have millions of features,
we just can't be affording to
train millions upon millions of
models to try and work out what's
the roughly optimal set of features,
even doing it in a greedy fashion.
And so therefore in NLP,
it's actually normal that
which features are put into the model and
which interaction terms according to
the model is just being determined by
hand based on linguistic intuitions.
Not always there has been some work
that has been looking at automatic
ways to find good feature interactions,
though even that work is having to do some
fairly heuristic things to make up for
the fact that the search space is so
big in this case.
Now here's an example showing
feature interactions that work.
Here we have again the same
example with at Grace road.
And so, we have,
what is the previous class?
So, in our example
the previous class was other.
And so, what this says is that,
if the previous class was other,
it's very unlikely that the next
word is a named entity.
Those are strongly
negatively related features.
And that's just really because most
words aren't named entities, and
if you've just seen what came
before you wasn't a named entity,
then probably the next word
isn't a named entity either.
On the other hand, if you see a word
that is capitalized, so this is
done by these word shaped signature
features, so it's a capitalized word.
Well capitalized words in English
are just normally proper nouns, and
proper nouns and normally entities.
So that then, this feature has very
positive weights on both person and
location.
Okay, so those two features
are banging against each other,
and if you add up those terms,
we'll assume then in
this case just the sum of those
weights is approximately zero.
And so you're not actually getting any
particular evidence that a capitalised
word after something passed other
is going to be a named entity.
But that's wrong and so
to get the model to work better,
what we have to do is put in
an interaction term that models
the conjunction of the previous state
being other and being a capitalised word.
And then when we do that, we find this
interaction term votes quite strongly for
either, for the word being
either a person or a location.
When features overlap,
it's actually quite subtle the way
the weighting of the features works.
But it's something that's important to
get a sense of to understand how maxent
models work.
And I hope these examples
have helped with that.